





























































Teams Phone features - Microsoft Teams | Microsoft Learn









Skip to main content



This browser is no longer supported.
Upgrade to Microsoft Edge to take advantage of the latest features, security updates, and technical support.


Download Microsoft Edge					

More info about Internet Explorer and Microsoft Edge					















Table of contents						



Exit focus mode




































Read in English





Save

















Table of contents





Read in English





Save





Add to Plan





Edit



Share via




Facebook





x.com





LinkedIn





Email






Print












Table of contents




Teams Phone features




Article														

05/30/2024



																	27 contributors
															



Applies to:
Microsoft Teams









Feedback




In this article


This article describes Microsoft Teams Phone features. For more information about using Teams Phone as your Private Branch Exchange (PBX) replacement, and options for connecting to the Public Switched Telephone Network (PSTN), see What is Teams Phone. This article is for administrators and IT professionals.
Clients are available for PC, Mac, and mobile, which provides features on devices from tablets and mobile phones to PCs and desktop IP phones. For more information, see Get clients for Microsoft Teams.

Note
For details about Teams phone systems on different platforms, see Teams features by platform.

Licenses and voice enablement - To use Teams Phone features, your organization must have a Teams Phone license. For more information about licensing, including Teams Phone Standard and Teams Phone Standard for Frontline Workers, see Microsoft Teams add-on licensing.
Most features require you to assign the Teams Phone license and ensure that users are "voice enabled." To assign the license, use the Set-CsPhoneNumberAssignment cmdlet and set the EnterpriseVoiceEnabled parameter to $true. A few features, such as Auto attendant, don't require a user to be voice enabled. Exceptions are called out in the table below.
Teams Phone features
Teams Phone provides the following features.



Teams Phone feature
Description




Cloud auto attendants
Lets you create a menu system that enables external and internal callers to locate and place or transfer calls to company users or departments in your organization.   Note that users do not need to be voice enabled to receive calls from the auto attendant dial by name, dial by number directory search. Users do need to be voice enabled to receive calls from the auto attendant menu options.


Cloud call queues 
Lets you configure how call queues are managed for your organization: for example, set up greetings and music on hold, search for the next available call agent to handle the call, and so on.   Note that users do need to be voice enabled to receive calls from a call queue.


Music on hold
Plays default music defined by the service or custom music uploaded by the tenant administrator when an external call from the Public Switched Telephone Network (PSTN) is placed on hold. This feature works for one-to-one PSTN-to-Teams calls in addition to calls made to a call queue. This feature provides on-hold notification parity with other platforms.


Call answer/initiate (by name and number)
Lets users answer inbound calls with a touch, and place outbound calls either by dialing the full phone number or by clicking a name in the client.


Call forwarding options and simultaneous ring
Lets users set up forwarding rules so calls can go with them anywhere, or calls can be forwarded to colleagues or to voicemail.


Call sharing and group call pickup
Lets users share incoming calls with colleagues so that the colleagues can answer calls that occur while the user is unavailable. Less disruptive to recipients than other forms of call sharing (such as call forwarding or simultaneous ringing) because users can configure how they want to be notified of an incoming shared call.


Transfer a call and consultative transfer
Lets users transfers calls to another person. Or, if they need to leave their office but want to continue the conversation, they can transfer the calls from their PC or IP phone to their cell phone.   Note that users do not need to be voice enabled to receive transferred calls from another user.


Transfer to voicemail mid call*
Lets users transfer to voicemail during a call.


Call park and retrieve
Lets users place a call on hold in the Teams service in the cloud. When a call is parked, the service generates a unique code for call retrieval. The user who parked the call or someone else can then use that code and a supported app or device to retrieve the call.


Call phone number from search
Lets users place a call from the search box by using the /call command and specifying a name or a number.


Caller ID
Calls from inside the company display a detailed caller ID that pulls information from the corporate directory, showing picture ID and job title instead of just a phone number. For calls from external phone numbers, the caller ID as provided by the phone service provider is displayed. If the external phone numbers are secondary numbers in the corporate directory, then the information from the corporate directory will be displayed.


Device switching
Lets users play a call or meeting on another HID device that is connected to Teams; for example, switching from their PC speakers to a headset.


Presence-based call routing
Controls inbound communications with presence, enabling the user to block all incoming communication except from those specifically indicated.


Integrated dial pad
Lets users dial by name or by number anywhere in the search bar and in the dial pad, speeding up the process of making outbound calls.


Federated calling
Lets users securely connect, communicate, and collaborate with users in federated tenants.


Make and receive a video call
If the user's account is enabled for video calls, the user can make face-to-face video calls with their contacts. All they need is a camera, their computer’s speakers and microphone. Users can also use a headset if their computer doesn’t have a built-in audio device.


Cloud Voicemail
When a user receives a voicemail, it is delivered to their Exchange mailbox as an email with the voicemail message as an attachment. Users can listen to their messages on their certified desktop phone, and on all Teams or Skype for Business applications. Support for voicemail transcription has been added as of March 2017 and is enabled by default for all organizations and users.  Note that users do not need a Teams Phone license, nor do they need to be voice enabled to use Cloud Voicemail features.


Cloud Voicemail user settings
Lets users configure their client settings for voicemail greetings, call answering rules, and greeting language, including out-of-office greetings.  Note that users do not need a Teams Phone license, nor do they need to be voice enabled to use Cloud Voicemail features.


Secondary ringer
Users with multiple speaker devices connected to their PC can choose to set a secondary device to ring in addition to their default speaker. For example, a user with a headset connected to the PC and desk speakers can choose to have both headset and desk speakers ring when a call comes in so that they don’t miss a call.


Distinctive ring alerts (Teams only)
Lets users choose separate ringtones for  normal calls, forwarded calls, and delegated calls so they can distinguish the type of call.


Shared Line Appearance
Lets users share their phone line so that another user can make and receive calls on their behalf.


Busy on Busy (Teams only)
A calling policy that lets you configure how incoming calls are handled when a user is: in a call in a conferencehas a call placed on hold.  The caller will receive one of the following responses: hear a busy signal when the callee is on the phone will be routed accordingly to the user's unanswered settings. One option lets the caller leave a voicemail for the user who is already on a call. The callee gets a missed call notification but isn't able to answer incoming calls. This feature is disabled by default, but can be turned on by the tenant admin.


Call blocking
Lets users add (PSTN) phone numbers to a blocked list so that the next call from that number is blocked from ringing the user.


Common area phones
A common area phone is typically placed in an area like a lobby or conference room making it available to multiple people. Common area phones are set up as devices rather than users, and can automatically sign into a network.


Media bypass support (for Teams Direct Routing only)
For better performance, media is kept between the Session Border Controller (SBC) and the client instead of sending it through  Teams Phone.


Unassigned number routing
Allows routing of unassigned numbers to users, auto attendants, call queues or a custom announcement.



Availability in GCC High and DoD clouds
 
The following capabilities aren't yet available in GCC High and DoD Clouds.

Call settings for secondary ringer, voicemail, and enhanced delegation
Transfer to voicemail mid call
Call phone number from search bar
Microsoft Entra ID reverse number lookup

Related articles

What is Teams Phone
Cloud voice in Microsoft Teams
Set up Teams Phone
Which Calling Plan is right for you?
Monitor and manage call quality
Microsoft Teams add-on licensing
Pricing for Teams Phone
Teams for Virtualized Desktop Infrastructure with callings and meetings












Feedback

Was this page helpful?





Yes





No






Provide product feedback





Feedback





Coming soon: Throughout 2024 we will be phasing out GitHub Issues as the feedback mechanism for content and replacing it with a new feedback system. For more information see: https://aka.ms/ContentUserFeedback.		
Submit and view feedback for


This product





This page






View all page feedback








Additional resources
















California Consumer Privacy Act (CCPA) Opt-Out Icon





Your Privacy Choices








Theme























Light					



















Dark					



















High contrast					









Previous Versions
Blog
Contribute
Privacy
Terms of Use
Trademarks
© Microsoft 2024






Additional resources




In this article


























California Consumer Privacy Act (CCPA) Opt-Out Icon





Your Privacy Choices








Theme























Light					



















Dark					



















High contrast					









Previous Versions
Blog
Contribute
Privacy
Terms of Use
Trademarks
© Microsoft 2024






